---
title: "Multidimensional Impact of Large Language Models on Scientific Research: Methodological Integration, Efficiency Gains, and Shifts in Funding Patterns "
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-09-11
date: 2024-09-11
venue: 'iConference 2025-Full Research Papers'
# paperurl: 'http://product.dangdang.com/29286280.html'
citation: "Under Review"
---

<!-- [下载本文]() -->

Y. ZHANG(1,2), Y. ZHU(1), H. GONG(1), F. WANG(1), S. DENG(1)

Organization(s): 1: NanJing University, China, People's Republic of; 2: International Joint Informatics Laboratory, Nanjing University, China
 
Submitted by: YIQIN ZHANG (NanJing University, CN), ID: 1575

Presenting Author: ZHANG, YIQIN 

yiqin.zhang@smail.nju.edu.cn

Papers Topics: AI & Machine Learning, Information Science & Data Science, Digital Humanities

Keywords: Large Language Models, Scientific Research Methodologies, Interdisciplinary Collaboration, AI Integration


**Abstract**

Introduction. The rapid evolution of Large Language Models (LLMs) has significantly transformed scientific research. This study aims to explore the multidimensional impact of LLM integration, focusing on its influence on research methodologies, efficiency, and collaboration across various disciplines.

Method. A systematic content analysis was conducted using a comprehensive dataset sourced from Web of Science. Indicators such as LLM integration levels, use cases, shifts in research methodologies, and impacts on funding and research outcomes were analyzed. The dataset was manually curated to include 722 relevant academic articles, ensuring rigorous data selection.

Analysis. The analysis focused on tracking the progression of LLM integration in scientific research from 2019 to 2024. Specific attention was given to identifying trends in LLM applications for data analysis, hypothesis generation, and interdisciplinary collaboration, as well as methodological transformations.

Results. The findings indicate a substantial increase in LLM integration, particularly in 2023, where their use in core research activities peaked. LLMs have significantly enhanced computational methods and fostered interdisciplinary collaboration, although some challenges, such as over-reliance and ethical concerns, remain.

Conclusion(s). LLM technologies are poised to revolutionize scientific research by improving efficiency, creativity, and collaboration. Future research should focus on addressing the ethical implications of LLM use and further exploring their long-term impact on scientific methodologies and innovation.