---
title: "Evaluating the Distributional Patterns of AI-Generated Content through Zipf-Mandelbrot Law"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-09-12
date: 2024-09-12
venue: 'iConference 2025-Full Research Papers'
# paperurl: 'http://product.dangdang.com/29286280.html'
citation: "Under Review"
---

<!-- [下载本文]() -->

Y. Zhu(1), L. Cai(2), R. Lu(3), Y. Zhang(1), J. Ye(1)

Organization(s): 1: School of Information Management, Nanjing University, China, People's Republic of; 2: School of Mathematics, Sichuan University, China, People's Republic of; 3: Pittsburgh Institute, Sichuan University, China, People's Republic of
 
Submitted by: Yu Zhu (School of Information Management, Nanjing University, China, CN), ID: 1626

Presenting Author: Zhu, Yu 

zhu.yu@smail.nju.edu.cn 

This contribution was solely written by students and/or doctoral candidates.

Papers Topics: AI & Machine Learning, Information Science & Data Science, Digital Information Economy

Keywords: Artificial Intelligence Generated Content, Generative Artificial Intelligence, Information Distribution, Zipf’s Law, Informetric

**Abstract**

Introduction. The breakthrough of Generative AI has triggered a surge in Artificial Intelligence Generated Content (AIGC), rapidly reshaping the landscape of information resources. Despite this, few studies have quantitatively analysed the characteristics of AIGC or its future impact on the development and use of information resources.

Method. This study applies the Zipf-Mandelbrot Law to examine the distributional patterns of AIGC and the content generation behaviours in Generative AI.

Results. Generative AI demonstrates the ability to produce both creative free text and structured document editing. Furthermore, the distributional patterns of AIGC align with the principle of least effort in human communication, striking a balance between diversity and uniformity. The study also highlights variations in Zipf-Mandelbrot parameters across different models, suggesting their potential as a tool for evaluating model performance.

Conclusion(s). By investigating the linguistic traits of AIGC through the lens of the Zipf-Mandelbrot Law, this study introduces a quantitative framework for evaluating AIGC in both Library and Information Science (LIS) and Linguistics. It sets a precedent for assessing the quality and value of AIGC, and provides foundational evidence for integrating AIGC into information resources in the AI era, laying the groundwork for further theoretical research in LIS.